.github/CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contribution Guidelines

First off, thank you for taking the time to contribute!🎉💪

The following is a set of guidelines for contributing. These are mostly guidelines, not rules.
Use your best judgment, and feel free to propose changes to this document in a pull request.

## Table of contents

- [Contribution Guidelines](#contribution-guidelines)
  - [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Why?](#why)
  - [Before Getting Started](#before-getting-started)
    - [Learn about our code of conduct](#learn-about-our-code-of-conduct)
    - [Got a Question or Problem?](#got-a-question-or-problem)
  - [Different contributions](#different-contributions)
    - [Found a bug?](#found-a-bug)
    - [Found a security vulnerability?](#found-a-security-vulnerability)
    - [Missing a Feature?](#missing-a-feature)
    - [Want to improve the documentation?](#want-to-improve-the-documentation)
  - [Submission Guidelines](#submission-guidelines)
    - [Submitting an Issue](#submitting-an-issue)
    - [Pull Request Title: Conventional Commits](#pull-request-title-conventional-commits)
    - [Submitting a Pull Request (PR)](#submitting-a-pull-request-pr)
    - [Reviewing a Pull Request](#reviewing-a-pull-request)
  - [Your First Contribution](#your-first-contribution)

## Why?

Following these guidelines helps to communicate that you respect the time of the developers managing and developing this open-source project. In return, they should reciprocate that respect in addressing your issue, assessing changes, and helping you finalize your pull requests.

## Before Getting Started

### Learn about our code of conduct

See the [code of conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

### Got a Question or Problem?

If you have questions about this project please ask the question by submitting an issue
in this repository.

## Different contributions

There are many ways to contribute, from writing tutorials, improving the documentation, submitting bug reports and feature requests, or writing code that can be incorporated into the project itself.

### Found a bug?

If you find a bug in the source code or a mistake in the documentation, you can help us by [submitting an issue](#submitting-an-issue) to our GitHub Repository.

### Found a security vulnerability?

If you discover a vulnerability in our software, please refer to the [security policy](./SECURITY.md) and report it appropriately.
Do not submit an issue, unless asked to.

### Missing a Feature?

You can request a new feature by [submitting an issue](#submitting-an-issue) to our GitHub Repository. If you would like to implement a new feature, please consider the size of the change in order to determine the right steps to proceed:

For a Major Feature, first, open an issue and outline your proposal so that it can be discussed. This process allows us to better coordinate our efforts, prevent duplication of work, and help you to craft the change so that it is successfully accepted into the project.

Note: Adding a new topic to the documentation, or significantly re-writing a topic, counts as a major feature.

Small Features can be crafted and directly submitted as a Pull Request.

### Want to improve the documentation?

If you want to help improve the docs, it's a good idea to let others know what you're working on to minimize duplication of effort.
Create a new issue (or comment on a related existing one) to let others know what you're working on.

## Submission Guidelines

### Submitting an Issue

Before you submit an issue, please search the issue tracker, maybe an issue for your problem already exists and the discussion might inform you of workarounds readily available.

We want to fix all the issues as soon as possible, but before fixing a bug we need to reproduce and confirm it. In order to reproduce bugs, we require that you provide minimal reproduction. Having a minimal reproducible scenario gives us a wealth of important information without going back and forth with you with additional questions.

A minimal reproduction allows us to quickly confirm a bug (or point out a coding problem) as well as confirm that we are fixing the right problem.

We require minimal reproduction to save maintainers time and ultimately be able to fix more bugs. Often, developers find coding problems themselves while preparing a minimal reproduction. We understand that sometimes it might be hard to extract essential bits of code from a larger codebase but we really need to isolate the problem before we can fix it.

Unfortunately, we are not able to investigate/fix bugs without minimal reproduction, so if we don't hear back from you, we are going to close an issue that doesn't have enough info to be reproduced.

You can file new issues by selecting from our new issue templates and filling out the issue template.

### Pull Request Title: Conventional Commits

The title of your Pull Request (PR) should follow the style of [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/). Not only does this present a standardized categorization of the kind of work done on a pull request, but it also instructs the release workflow to increment the correct level of the version according to the rules of [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

The format of the title of the pull request is this:

 `<type>[(optional scope)][!]: <description>`

The `<type>` of the pull request is one of these:

- `feat:` adding new functionality
- `fix:` fixing a bug
- `test:` adding, improving, fixing tests
- `ci:` modifications on how GitHub interacts with the archive: workflows and configuration files
- `docs:` anything documentation related
- `refactor:` refactoring code, including applying formatters
- `chore:` a catch-all type for any other commits

An exclamation mark `!` is added to the type if the change is not backwards compatible. This should only be added to `feat` or `fix`.

> [!NOTE]
> We do not enforce conventional commits for individual commit messages, only for the title of your pull request.

Examples:

- `feat: add required-tool to devcontainer`

   This pull request adds the "required-tool" to the devcontainer because everybody want to use it.

- `fix!: escape fe ff in binary ports`

   This pull request fixes binary ports, and indicates that this is a backwards-incompatible change.

> [!TIP]
> If your work consists of a single commit, creating a pull request will default to the name of that commit. If you use conventional commit style for that single commit, your pull request already has the correct name.

### Submitting a Pull Request (PR)

Before you submit your pull request consider the following guidelines:

1. Search the GitHub Repository for an open or closed PR that relates to your submission.
   You don't want to duplicate existing efforts.

1. Be sure that an issue describes the problem you're fixing, or documents the design for the feature you'd like to add.
   Discussing the design upfront helps to ensure that we're ready to accept your work.

1. Fork the repository.

1. Make your changes in a new git branch:

   ```shell
   git checkout -b feature/my-fix-branch main
   ```

1. Create your patch, include tests if necessary.

1. Ensure that all tests pass.

1. Commit your changes using a descriptive commit message.

   ```shell
   git commit --all
   ```

   Note: the optional commit `-a` command-line option will automatically "add" and "rm" edited files.

1. Push your branch to your GitHub fork:

   ```shell
   git push origin feature/my-fix-branch
   ```

1. In GitHub, send a pull request to merge from the branch on your fork to the main branch in the upstream.

1. After your pull request is merged, make sure that your branch and/or fork are deleted.

### Reviewing a Pull Request

Anyone can review pull requests, we encourage others to review each other's work, however, only the maintainers can approve a pull request.
Pull Requests often require several approvals from maintainers, before being able to merge it.

## Your First Contribution

Unsure where to begin contributing? You can start by looking through good-first-issue and help-wanted issues:
"Good first issue" issues - issues that should only require a few lines of code, and a test or two.
"Help wanted" issues - issues that should be a bit more involved than good-first-issue issues.

Working on your first Pull Request? You can learn how from this _free_ series, [How to Contribute to an Open Source Project on GitHub](https://app.egghead.io/playlists/how-to-contribute-to-an-open-source-project-on-github). If you prefer to read through some tutorials, visit <https://makeapullrequest.com/> and <https://www.firsttimersonly.com/>

At this point, you're ready to make your changes! Feel free to ask for help; everyone is a beginner at first :smile_cat:

If a maintainer asks you to "rebase" your PR, they're saying that a lot of code has changed and that you need to update your branch so it's easier to merge.

Commit message:

ci: switch to more compliant pr title validator

.github/CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contribution Guidelines

First off, thank you for taking the time to contribute!🎉💪

The following is a set of guidelines for contributing. These are mostly guidelines, not rules.
Use your best judgment, and feel free to propose changes to this document in a pull request.

## Table of contents

- [Contribution Guidelines](#contribution-guidelines)
  - [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Why?](#why)
  - [Before Getting Started](#before-getting-started)
    - [Learn about our code of conduct](#learn-about-our-code-of-conduct)
    - [Got a Question or Problem?](#got-a-question-or-problem)
  - [Different contributions](#different-contributions)
    - [Found a bug?](#found-a-bug)
    - [Found a security vulnerability?](#found-a-security-vulnerability)
    - [Missing a Feature?](#missing-a-feature)
    - [Want to improve the documentation?](#want-to-improve-the-documentation)
  - [Submission Guidelines](#submission-guidelines)
    - [Submitting an Issue](#submitting-an-issue)
    - [Naming a Pull Request (PR)](#naming-a-pull-request-pr)
    - [Submitting a Pull Request](#submitting-a-pull-request)
    - [Reviewing a Pull Request](#reviewing-a-pull-request)
  - [Your First Contribution](#your-first-contribution)

## Why?

Following these guidelines helps to communicate that you respect the time of the developers managing and developing this open-source project. In return, they should reciprocate that respect in addressing your issue, assessing changes, and helping you finalize your pull requests.

## Before Getting Started

### Learn about our code of conduct

See the [code of conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

### Got a Question or Problem?

If you have questions about this project please ask the question by submitting an issue
in this repository.

## Different contributions

There are many ways to contribute, from writing tutorials, improving the documentation, submitting bug reports and feature requests, or writing code that can be incorporated into the project itself.

### Found a bug?

If you find a bug in the source code or a mistake in the documentation, you can help us by [submitting an issue](#submitting-an-issue) to our GitHub Repository.

### Found a security vulnerability?

If you discover a vulnerability in our software, please refer to the [security policy](./SECURITY.md) and report it appropriately.
Do not submit an issue, unless asked to.

### Missing a Feature?

You can request a new feature by [submitting an issue](#submitting-an-issue) to our GitHub Repository. If you would like to implement a new feature, please consider the size of the change in order to determine the right steps to proceed:

For a Major Feature, first, open an issue and outline your proposal so that it can be discussed. This process allows us to better coordinate our efforts, prevent duplication of work, and help you to craft the change so that it is successfully accepted into the project.

Note: Adding a new topic to the documentation, or significantly re-writing a topic, counts as a major feature.

Small Features can be crafted and directly submitted as a Pull Request.

### Want to improve the documentation?

If you want to help improve the docs, it's a good idea to let others know what you're working on to minimize duplication of effort.
Create a new issue (or comment on a related existing one) to let others know what you're working on.

## Submission Guidelines

### Submitting an Issue

Before you submit an issue, please search the issue tracker, maybe an issue for your problem already exists and the discussion might inform you of workarounds readily available.

We want to fix all the issues as soon as possible, but before fixing a bug we need to reproduce and confirm it. In order to reproduce bugs, we require that you provide minimal reproduction. Having a minimal reproducible scenario gives us a wealth of important information without going back and forth with you with additional questions.

A minimal reproduction allows us to quickly confirm a bug (or point out a coding problem) as well as confirm that we are fixing the right problem.

We require minimal reproduction to save maintainers time and ultimately be able to fix more bugs. Often, developers find coding problems themselves while preparing a minimal reproduction. We understand that sometimes it might be hard to extract essential bits of code from a larger codebase but we really need to isolate the problem before we can fix it.

Unfortunately, we are not able to investigate/fix bugs without minimal reproduction, so if we don't hear back from you, we are going to close an issue that doesn't have enough info to be reproduced.

You can file new issues by selecting from our new issue templates and filling out the issue template.

### Naming a Pull Request (PR)

The title of your Pull Request (PR) should follow the style of [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/). Not only does this present a standardized categorization of the kind of work done on a pull request, but it also instructs the release workflow to increment the correct level of the version according to the rules of [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

The format of the title of the pull request is this:

 `<type>[(optional scope)][!]: <description>`

The `<type>` of the pull request is one of these, taken from [conventional commit types](https://github.com/commitizen/conventional-commit-types):

- `feat:` a new feature
- `fix:` a bug fix
- `docs:` documentation only changes
- `style:` changes that do not affect the meaning of the code (white-space, formatting, missing semi-colons, etc)
- `refactor:` a code change that neither fixes a bug nor adds a feature
- `perf:` a code change that improves performance
- `test:` adding missing tests or correcting existing tests
- `build:` changes that affect the build system or external dependencies
- `ci:` changes to our CI configuration files and scripts
- `chore:` other changes that don't modify source or test files
- `revert:` reverts a previous commit

An exclamation mark `!` is added to the type if the change is not backwards compatible. This should only be added to `feat` or `fix`.

> [!NOTE]
> We do not enforce conventional commits for individual commit messages, only for the title of your pull request.

Examples:

- `feat: add required-tool to devcontainer`

   This pull request adds the "required-tool" to the devcontainer because everybody want to use it.

- `fix!: escape fe ff in binary ports`

   This pull request fixes binary ports, and indicates that this is a backwards-incompatible change.

> [!TIP]
> If your work consists of a single commit, creating a pull request will default to the name of that commit. If you use conventional commit style for that single commit, your pull request already has the correct name.

### Submitting a Pull Request

Before you submit your pull request consider the following guidelines:

1. Search the GitHub Repository for an open or closed PR that relates to your submission.
   You don't want to duplicate existing efforts.

1. Be sure that an issue describes the problem you're fixing, or documents the design for the feature you'd like to add.
   Discussing the design upfront helps to ensure that we're ready to accept your work.

1. Fork the repository.

1. Make your changes in a new git branch:

   ```shell
   git checkout -b feature/my-fix-branch main
   ```

1. Create your patch, include tests if necessary.

1. Ensure that all tests pass.

1. Commit your changes using a descriptive commit message.

   ```shell
   git commit --all
   ```

   Note: the optional commit `-a` command-line option will automatically "add" and "rm" edited files.

1. Push your branch to your GitHub fork:

   ```shell
   git push origin feature/my-fix-branch
   ```

1. In GitHub, send a pull request to merge from the branch on your fork to the main branch in the upstream.

1. After your pull request is merged, make sure that your branch and/or fork are deleted.

### Reviewing a Pull Request

Anyone can review pull requests, we encourage others to review each other's work, however, only the maintainers can approve a pull request.
Pull Requests often require several approvals from maintainers, before being able to merge it.

## Your First Contribution

Unsure where to begin contributing? You can start by looking through good-first-issue and help-wanted issues:
"Good first issue" issues - issues that should only require a few lines of code, and a test or two.
"Help wanted" issues - issues that should be a bit more involved than good-first-issue issues.

Working on your first Pull Request? You can learn how from this _free_ series, [How to Contribute to an Open Source Project on GitHub](https://app.egghead.io/playlists/how-to-contribute-to-an-open-source-project-on-github). If you prefer to read through some tutorials, visit <https://makeapullrequest.com/> and <https://www.firsttimersonly.com/>

At this point, you're ready to make your changes! Feel free to ask for help; everyone is a beginner at first :smile_cat:

If a maintainer asks you to "rebase" your PR, they're saying that a lot of code has changed and that you need to update your branch so it's easier to merge.
